add torchrec concepts to docs (#2450)
facebookresearch/torchrec: docs/source/concepts.rst

.. meta::
   :description: TorchRec Concepts
   :keywords: recommendation systems, sharding, distributed training, torchrec, embedding bags, embeddings, keyedjaggedtensor, row wise, table wise, column wise, table row wise, planner, sharder

###################
 TorchRec Concepts
###################

> In this section, you will learn about the key concepts of TorchRec,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we will learn about the key concepts of TorchRec,
```

designed to optimize large-scale recommendation systems using PyTorch.

> You will learn how each concept works in detail and is used with the
> rest of TorchRec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will go over each concept in detail and review how it is used with the
rest of TorchRec.
```

TorchRec has specific input/output data types of its modules to

> efficiently represent sparse features,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
efficiently represent sparse features, including: 
```

-  **JaggedTensor:** a wrapper around the lengths/offsets and values
   tensors for a singular sparse feature
-  **KeyedJaggedTensor:** efficiently represent multiple sparse
   features, can think of it as multiple ``JaggedTensor``\s
-  **KeyedTensor:** a wrapper around ``torch.Tensor`` that allows access
   to tensor values through keys

With the goal of high performance and efficiency, the canonical
``torch.Tensor`` is highly inefficient for representing sparse data.
TorchRec introduces these new data types because they provide efficient
storage and representation of sparse input data. As you will see later
on, the ``KeyedJaggedTensor`` makes communication of input data in a
distributed environment very efficient leading to one of the key
performance advantages that TorchRec provides.

> In the end to end training loop, TorchRec comprises of the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the end-to-end training loop, TorchRec comprises of the following
```

> main components,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
main components:
```

> -  **Planner:** Take in configuration of embedding tables, environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  **Planner:** Takes in the configuration of embedding tables, environment
```

>    setup, and generate optimized sharding plan for model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   setup, and generates an optimized sharding plan for the model.
```

> -  **Sharder:** Shard model according to sharding plan with different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  **Sharder:** Shards model according to sharding plan with different
```

   sharding strategies including data-parallel, table-wise, row-wise,

>    table-wise-row-wise, column-wise, table-wise-column-wise sharding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   table-wise-row-wise, column-wise, and table-wise-column-wise sharding.
```

-  **DistributedModelParallel:** Combines sharder, optimizer, and

>    provides entry point into training the model in a distributed manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   provides an entry point into the training the model in a distributed manner.
```

**************
 JaggedTensor
**************

A ``JaggedTensor`` represents a sparse feature through lengths, values,

> and offsets. It’s denoted as jagged as it helps efficiently represent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and offsets. It is called "jagged" because it efficiently represents
```

> data with variable-length sequences. A canonical ``torch.Tensor`` each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data with variable-length sequences. In contrast, a canonical ``torch.Tensor`` assumes that each
```

> sequence has the same length but in real world data each sequence can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sequence has the same length, which is often not the case with real-world data.
```

> have varying lengths. A ``JaggedTensor`` allows representation of this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ``JaggedTensor`` facilitates the representation of such
```

data without padding making it highly efficient.

Key Components:

-  ``Lengths``: A list of integers representing the number of elements
   for each entity.

-  ``Offsets``: A list of integers representing the starting index of
   each sequence in the flattened values tensor. These provide an
   alternative to lengths.

-  ``Values``: A 1D tensor containing the actual values for each entity,
   stored contiguously.

Here is a simple example demonstrating how each of the components would

> look like,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
look like:
```

.. code:: python

   # User interactions:
   # - User 1 interacted with 2 items
   # - User 2 interacted with 3 items
   # - User 3 interacted with 1 item
   lengths = [2, 3, 1]
   offsets = [0, 2, 5]  # Starting index of each user's interactions
   values = torch.Tensor([101, 102, 201, 202, 203, 301])  # Item IDs interacted with
   jt = JaggedTensor(lengths=lengths, values=values)
   # OR
   jt = JaggedTensor(offsets=offsets, values=values)

*******************
 KeyedJaggedTensor
*******************

A ``KeyedJaggedTensor`` extends the functionality of ``JaggedTensor`` by
introducing keys (which are typically feature names) to label different

> groups of features (e.g., user features and item features). This is the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
groups of features, for example, user features and item features. This is the
```

data type used in ``forward`` of ``EmbeddingBagCollection`` and
``EmbeddingCollection`` as they are used to represent multiple features
in a table.

> A ``KeyedJaggedTensor`` has an implied batch size which is the number of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ``KeyedJaggedTensor`` has an implied batch size, which is the number of
```

> features divided by length of ``lengths`` tensor. The example below has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
features divided by the length of ``lengths`` tensor. The example below has
```

> a batch size of 2. Just like a ``JaggedTensor`` the ``offsets`` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a batch size of 2. Similar to a ``JaggedTensor``, the ``offsets`` and
```

> ``lengths`` work the same way. You can also access the ``lengths``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``lengths`` function in the same manner. You can also access the ``lengths``,
```

``offsets``, and ``values`` of a feature by accessing the key from the
``KeyedJaggedTensor``.

.. code:: python

   keys = ["user_features", "item_features"]
   # Lengths of interactions:
   # - User features: 2 users, with 2 and 3 interactions respectively
   # - Item features: 2 items, with 1 and 2 interactions respectively
   lengths = [2, 3, 1, 2]
   values = torch.Tensor([11, 12, 21, 22, 23, 101, 102, 201])
   # Create a KeyedJaggedTensor
   kjt = KeyedJaggedTensor(keys=keys, lengths=lengths, values=values)
   # Access the features by key
   print(kjt["user_features"])
   # Outputs user features
   print(kjt["item_features"])

*********
 Planner
*********

The TorchRec planner helps determine the best sharding configuration for

> a model. What it does it evaluates multiple possibilities of how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a model. It evaluates multiple possibilities for sharding
```

> embedding tables can be sharded and then optimizes for performance. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
embedding tables and optimizes for performance. The
```

> planner,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
planner performs the following:
```

> -  Assesses the memory constraints of hardware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Assesses the memory constraints of the hardware.
```

> -  Estimates compute based on memory fetches as embedding lookups,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Estimates compute requirements based on memory fetches, such as embedding lookups.
```

> -  Addresses data specific factors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Addresses data-specific factors.
```

> -  Considers other hardware specifics like bandwidth to generate an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Considers other hardware specifics, such as bandwidth, to generate an
```

>    optimal sharding plan

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   optimal sharding plan.
```

> To help with accurate consideration of these factors, the Planner can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure accurate consideration of these factors, the Planner can
```

> take in data about the embedding tables, constraints, hardware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can incorporate data about the embedding tables, constraints, hardware
```

information, and topology to help in generating an optimal plan.

*****************************
 Sharding of EmbeddingTables
*****************************

TorchRec sharder provides multiple sharding strategies for various use
cases, we outline some of the sharding strategies and how they work as
well as their benefits and limitations. Generally, we recommend using
the TorchRec planner to generate a sharding plan for you as it will find
the optimal sharding strategy for each embedding table in your model.

Each sharding strategy determines how to do the table split, whether the
table should be cut up and how, whether to keep one or a few copies of
some tables, and so on. Each piece of the table from the outcome of
sharding, whether it is one embedding table or part of it, is referred
to as a shard.

.. figure:: _static/img/sharding.png
   :alt: Visualizing the difference of sharding types offered in TorchRec
   :align: center

   *Figure 1: Visualizing the placement of table shards under different sharding schemes offered in TorchRec*

> Here are all the sharding types available in TorchRec today:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the list of all sharding types available in TorchRec:
```

-  Table-wise (TW): as the name suggests, embedding table is kept as a

>    whole piece and placed on one rank

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   whole piece and placed on one rank.
```

> -  Column-wise (CW): the table is split along the ``emb_dim`` dimension

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Column-wise (CW): the table is split along the ``emb_dim`` dimension,
```

>    (e.g ``emb_dim=256`` is split into 4 shards: ``[64, 64, 64, 64]``)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   for example,  ``emb_dim=256`` is split into 4 shards: ``[64, 64, 64, 64]``.
```

-  Row-wise (RW): the table is split along the ``hash_size`` dimension,

>    usually split evenly among all the ranks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   usually split evenly among all the ranks.
```

-  Table-wise-row-wise (TWRW): table is placed on one host, split

>    row-wise among the ranks on that host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   row-wise among the ranks on that host.
```

-  Grid-shard (GS): a table is CW sharded and each CW shard is placed

>    TWRW on a node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   TWRW on a node.
```

> -  Data parallel (DP): each rank keeps a copy of the table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Data parallel (DP): each rank keeps a copy of the table.
```

Once sharded, the modules are converted to sharded versions of
themselves, known as ``ShardedEmbeddingCollection`` and
``ShardedEmbeddingBagCollection`` in TorchRec. These modules handle the
communication of input data, embedding lookups, and gradients.

****************************************************

>  Distributed Training with TorchRec Sharded Modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Distributed Training with TorchRec Sharded Modules
```

****************************************************

With many sharding strategies available, how do we determine which one
to use? There is a cost associated with each sharding scheme, which in
conjunction with model size and number of GPUs determines which sharding
strategy is best for a model.

Without sharding, where each GPU keeps a copy of the embedding table
(DP), the main cost is computation in which each GPU looks up the
embedding vectors in its memory in the forward pass and updates the

> gradients in the backward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gradients in the backward pass.
```

With sharding, there is an added communication cost: each GPU needs to
ask the other GPUs for embedding vector lookup and communicate the

> gradients computed as well. This is usually referred to as all2all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gradients computed as well. This is typically referred to as ``all2all``
```

communication. In TorchRec, for input data on a given GPU, we determine
where the embedding shard for each part of the data is located and send
it to the target GPU. That target GPU then returns the embedding vectors
back to the original GPU. In the backward pass, the gradients are sent
back to the target GPU and the shards are updated accordingly with the
optimizer.

As described above, sharding requires us to communicate the input data
and embedding lookups. TorchRec handles this in three main stages, we
will refer to this as the sharded embedding module forward that is used

> in training and inference of a TorchRec model,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in training and inference of a TorchRec model:
```

-  Feature All to All/Input distribution (``input_dist``)

   -  Communicate input data (in the form of a ``KeyedJaggedTensor``) to
      the appropriate device containing relevant embedding table shard

-  Embedding Lookup

   -  Lookup embeddings with new input data formed after feature all to
      all exchange

-  Embedding All to All/Output Distribution (``output_dist``)

   -  Communicate embedding lookup data back to the appropriate device
      that asked for it (in accordance with the input data the device
      received)

-  The backward pass does the same operations but in reverse order.

> We show this below in the diagram,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagram below demonstrates how it works:
```

.. figure:: _static/img/torchrec_forward.png
   :alt: Visualizing the forward pass including the input_dist, lookup, and output_dist of a sharded TorchRec module
   :align: center

   *Figure 2: Forward pass of a table wise sharded table including the input_dist, lookup, and output_dist of a sharded TorchRec module*

**************************

>  DistributedModelParallel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DistributedModelParallel
```

**************************

All of the above culminates into the main entrypoint that TorchRec uses
to shard and integrate the plan. At a high level,

> ``DistributedModelParallel`` does,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``DistributedModelParallel`` does the following:
```

> -  Initialize environment by setting up process groups and assigning
>    device type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Initializes the environment by setting up process groups and assigning the
   device type.
```

> -  Uses default shaders if no shaders are provided, default includes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Uses default shaders if no shaders are provided, the default includes
```

>    ``EmbeddingBagCollectionSharder``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``EmbeddingBagCollectionSharder``.
```

> -  Takes in provided sharding plan, if none provided it generates one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Takes in the provided sharding plan, if none is provided, it generates one.
```

> -  Creates sharded version of modules and replaces the original modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Creates a sharded version of modules and replaces the original modules
```

>    with them, such as ``EmbeddingCollection`` to
>    ``ShardedEmbeddingCollection``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   with them, for example,  converts ``EmbeddingCollection`` to
   ``ShardedEmbeddingCollection``.
```

-  By default, wraps the ``DistributedModelParallel`` with
   ``DistributedDataParallel`` to make the module both model and data

>    parallel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   parallel.
```

***********
 Optimizer
***********

TorchRec modules provide a seamless API to fuse the backwards pass and

> optimize step in training, providing a significant optimization in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
optimize the step in training, providing a significant optimization in
```

Author: i think this one i meant to write "optimizer step" which makes more sense with the sentence

performance and decreasing the memory used, alongside granularity in
assigning distinct optimizers to distinct model parameters.

.. figure:: _static/img/fused_backward_optimizer.png
   :alt: Visualizing fusing of optimizer in backward to update sparse embedding table
   :align: center

   *Figure 3: Fusing embedding backward with sparse optimizer*

***********

>  Inference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inference
```

***********

Inference environments are different from training, they are very

> sensitive to performance and size of the model. There are two key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sensitive to performance and the size of the model. There are two key
```

> differences TorchRec inference optimizes for,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
differences TorchRec inference optimizes for:
```

> -  Quantization: inference models are quantized for lower latency and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  **Quantization:** inference models are quantized for lower latency and
```

>    reduced model size, this lets us use as few devices as possible for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   reduced model size. This optimization lets us use as few devices as possible for
```

   inference to minimize latency.

> -  C++ environment: to minimize latency even further, the model is ran

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  **C++ environment:** to minimize latency even further, the model is ran
```

>    in a C++ environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   in a C++ environment.
```

TorchRec provides the following to convert a TorchRec model into being

> inference ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
inference ready:
```

-  APIs for quantizing the model, including optimizations automatically
   with FBGEMM TBE
-  Sharding embeddings for distributed inference
-  Compiling the model to TorchScript (compatible in C++)

> **********

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  See Also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See Also
```
